Add project downloads section (#411)
AlexsLemonade/scpca-docs: docs/download_files.md

The ScPCA Portal download packages include gene expression data, a QC report, and associated metadata for each processed sample.
Gene expression data is available as either [`SingleCellExperiment` objects (`.rds` files)](#singlecellexperiment-downloads) or [`AnnData` objects (`.h5ad` files)](#anndata-downloads).
All downloaded files are delivered as a zip file.
When you uncompress the zip file, the root directory name of your download will include the date you accessed the data on the ScPCA Portal.
We recommend you record this date in case there are future updates to the Portal that change the underlying data or if you need to cite the data in the future (see {ref}`How to Cite <citation:how to cite>` for more information).
Please see our {ref}`CHANGELOG <CHANGELOG:CHANGELOG>` for a summary of changes that impact downloads from the Portal.

> Data can be downloaded by either downloading a [single project](#project-downloads), creating a [custom dataset](#custom-datasets), or by choosing one of the [portal-wide download options](#portal-wide-downloads).

Reviewer: Noting you can also download single samples

Author: With the addition of cart, you can't just download a single sample anymore. You will have to add it to my dataset and then download. All of that will be described in the "custom dataset" section.

### Metadata-only downloads

The Portal-wide metadata download is a single TSV file containing the metadata for all samples with associated single-cell RNA-seq, single-nuclei RNA-seq, or spatial transcriptomics data available on the Portal. 
A table describing all columns included in the file can be found in the [metadata section below](#metadata).

### `SingleCellExperiment` downloads

#### Download folder structure for individual sample downloads:
![sample download folder](images/sample-download-folder.png){width="600"}

### `AnnData` downloads

#### Download folder structure for individual sample downloads:
![sample download folder](images/anndata-sample-download-folder.png){width="600"}

#### Download folder structure for individual sample downloads with CITE-seq (ADT) data:
![sample download folder](images/anndata-sample-citeseq-download-folder.png){width="600"}

If downloading a sample that contains a CITE-seq library as an `AnnData` object (`.h5ad` file), the quantified CITE-seq expression data is included as a separate file with the suffix `_adt.h5ad`.

<!--TODO: 
move spatial section 
merged objects
-->

## Gene expression data

> Single-cell or single-nuclei gene expression data is provided as either [`SingleCellExperiment` objects (`.rds` files)](http://bioconductor.org/books/3.13/OSCA.intro/the-singlecellexperiment-class.html) or [`AnnData` objects (`.h5ad` files)](https://anndata.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html).

Reviewer: i just noticed this while scrolling through, do we want to update any of these OSCA links (more generally?)

- A quality control report: `SCPCL000000_qc.html`,
- A supplemental cell type report: `SCPCL000000_celltype-report.html`

For more information on the contents of these files, see the sections on [gene expression data](#gene-expression-data), the [QC report](#qc-report), and the [cell type report](#cell-type-report).

Every download also includes a single `single_cell_metadata.tsv` file containing metadata for all libraries included in the download.
For a full description of the metadata file, refer to the [metadata section below](#metadata).

Metadata-only downloads are also available, either by downloading the metadata for all samples in a single project using the `Download Sample Metadata` button or by downloading the [metadata for all samples on the Portal](#metadata-only-downloads).

## Project downloads

> To download the gene expression data for all samples in a single project, use the `Download Now` button next to the project title. 
> This will allow you to download the chosen project instantly, without having to wait for a download link to be available. 

Reviewer: I'm not sure we need all this detail about the link, since the concept of having to wait for a download link hasn't introduced in the first place, so I'm suggesting to condense:

```suggestion
Use the `Download Now` button next to the project title to instantly download gene expression data for all samples in a single project.
```

To download more than one project or combine samples across projects, see the section on [downloading custom datasets](#custom-datasets).

For project downloads, data for all samples will be provided as either [`SingleCellExperiment` objects (`.rds` files)](http://bioconductor.org/books/3.13/OSCA.intro/the-singlecellexperiment-class.html) or [`AnnData` objects (`.h5ad` files)](https://anndata.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html).
If the project contains samples with a spatial transcriptomics library, the spatial data will be provided as a separate download. 
See the [description of the Spatial transcriptomics output section below](#spatial-transcriptomics-libraries).
<!--TODO: Replace STUB link--> 
For more information on choosing a data format and modality, see the {ref}`section on download options<STUB TO DATA FORMATS SECTION>`.

> If downloading a project containing bulk RNA-seq data, two tab-separated value files, e.g., `SCPCP000000_bulk_quant.tsv` and `SCPCP000000_bulk_metadata.tsv`, will be included in the project download.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the project contains bulk RNA-seq data, two tab-separated value files, e.g., `SCPCP000000_bulk_quant.tsv` and `SCPCP000000_bulk_metadata.tsv`, will also be included in the project download.
```

> The `SCPCP000000_bulk_quant.tsv` file contains a gene by sample matrix (each row a gene, each column a sample) containing raw gene expression counts quantified by Salmon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `SCPCP000000_bulk_quant.tsv` file contains a gene by sample matrix (each row a gene, each column a sample) containing raw gene expression counts quantified by `salmon`.
```

The `SCPCP000000_bulk_metadata.tsv` file contains associated metadata for all samples with bulk RNA-seq data.
This file will contain fields equivalent to those found in the `single_cell_metadata.tsv` related to processing the sample, but will not contain patient or disease specific metadata (e.g. `age`, `sex`, `diagnosis`, `subdiagnosis`, `tissue_location`, or `disease_timing`).
See also {ref}`processing bulk RNA samples <processing_information:Bulk RNA samples>`.

When downloading a project, you can choose to download data from all samples as individual files, or you can download {ref}`a single file containing all samples merged into a single object<faq:When should I download a project as a merged object?>`.
Below are examples of the expected folder structure when downloading a project with gene expression data from all samples stored in individual files.

### Download folder structure for `SingleCellExperiment` project downloads:
![project download folder](images/project-download-folder.png){width="600"}

### Download folder structure for `AnnData` project downloads:
![project download folder](images/anndata-project-download-folder.png){width="600"}

> <!--TODO: Add in project download showing at least one sample with CITE-seq?-->

Reviewer: Yeah, I think we do want this

Every download also includes the individual [QC report](#qc-report) and, if applicable, [cell type annotation reports](#cell-type-report) for each library included in the merged object.

<!--TODO: Update these images to use new folder titles-->

#### Download folder structure for `SingleCellExperiment` merged downloads:
![project download folder](images/merged-project-download-folder.png){width="600"}

#### Download folder structure for `AnnData` merged downloads:
![project download folder](images/merged-anndata-project-download-folder.png){width="600"}

#### Download folder structure for `AnnData` merged downloads with CITE-seq (ADT) data:
![project download folder](images/merged-anndata-project-citeseq-download-folder.png){width="600"}

## Custom datasets

<!--TODO: Fill in this section with information about creating and downloading custom datasets-->

## Portal-wide downloads

<!--TODO: Fill in information about portal-wide downloads and provide screenshots of all file structure downloads -->

### Metadata-only downloads

<!--Update this text once adding in the intro for portal wide downloads-->

> A single TSV file containing the metadata for all samples from all projects on the Portal is available for download.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A single TSV file containing the metadata for all single-cell and single-nuclei samples from all projects on the Portal is available for download.
```

The Portal-wide metadata will contain all columns listed in [the below table](#metadata).

### `SingleCellExperiment` downloads

#### Download folder structure for individual sample downloads:
![sample download folder](images/sample-download-folder.png){width="600"}

### `AnnData` downloads

#### Download folder structure for individual sample downloads:
![sample download folder](images/anndata-sample-download-folder.png){width="600"}

#### Download folder structure for individual sample downloads with CITE-seq (ADT) data:
![sample download folder](images/anndata-sample-citeseq-download-folder.png){width="600"}

If downloading a sample that contains a CITE-seq library as an `AnnData` object (`.h5ad` file), the quantified CITE-seq expression data is included as a separate file with the suffix `_adt.h5ad`.

> <!--TODO: 
> move spatial section 
> merged objects
> -->

Reviewer: this seems done, yeah?

```suggestion
```

Author: No, we haven't moved the spatial section since it's still at the bottom. And then we will need to mention merged objects specifically for the portal-wide downloads. These TODOs are tracked in #395 and #396.

Reviewer: Ok, I got a little thrown off with all the diffs, I was reading this to imply these were moved _away_ from here. Eh?

```suggestion
<!--TODO: 
spatial section to be moved here, followed by the merged objects section
-->
```
